---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A Programmer's Frame of Mind
date: 2020-02-27
labels:
  - Semantic UI
  - HTML
  - CSS
---
 There are many skills I've learned while pursuing a computer science degree. While I believe every skill has its own merit, the value of web design is immediately obvious. As I was creating mock ups of websites, there was a big sense of satisfaction in knowing you're on the cusp of creating something professional. And while there's definitely a lot more to websites than just their looks, using Semantic UI was a very powerful tool for helping me get one step closer to professional.
  HTML and CSS knowledge is the path to a good looking web page. UI Frameworks are vehicles that can get you down that path faster, and I'd much rather ride that path than walk it. There's a learning curve for sure, but the skill that you're learning is something a bit more meta that applies to all of the computer science field: learning to use tools. You don't need to know how an engine works to drive a car, or how to bake bread to eat it. Many libraries use functions I don't understand, but are taylor made to solve a task I need done. Now, if the task was to create that engine or bake that bread, that would be a different story. But in most cases, it's not the focus of the job. When you do need that custom made look no other tool can help you with, that's where solid fundamentals of HTML and CSS come in handy. With a good UI framework in tandem with these core skills, I believe that's when you can perform at your peak.
  One pitfall I seem to notice with a lot of programmers is losing the forest for the trees. As someone interested in game development, you see some hobbyist look at it from purely the coding view. Optimizing every render process or custom building every single shader, forgetting that what you wanted was something fun for people to play. It's the same with web development. Sure, you can reinvent the wheel and strictly use your own raw HTML, but don't be surprised if you're stuck with a caveman looking web page. Web Design is an art as much as it is a science, and the creators of these frameworks definitely have designers to help make these prebuilt classes look as nice as possible. Not only that, but one thing I really noticed was how much of Semantic's icons or menus were exactly similar to the look of many professional sites. The internet as a whole tends to follow design trends, and I'm sure it was someone's job to make sure spot these trends make sure they're in their framework. While it's extremely beneficial to have a diverse understanding in things like artistic design, trend analysis, or the tiny intricacies of your tool, it's also important to understand when to leave all that to other skilled people, and let them help you focus on your skills as a programmer.
